the most important definitive aspect of
canceled culture that contra points is
complaining of is that nobody has
anything to win its malice in the
strictest sense it's people trying to
harm someone and they won't benefit from
harming them it's not the case that it's
like you're trying to get someone fired
so that you personally can be promoted
and take over their job that's different
that maybe greed rather than malice the
phenomenon of canceled culture has to be
understood as malice pure and simple
with reference to the controversy raised
by counterpoints my fellow youtuber
Conger points one of the viewers of this
channel wrote in to say that he was
surprised that I didn't make a
comparison between so-called canceled
culture and history of the Chinese
Cultural Revolution
I said back well I can make a new video
discussing that but the reason why I
wouldn't make that comparison it's
partly because I don't think about
canceled culture in the way that you do
or in the way that context does perhaps
and it is also partly because I don't
understand the history of the Chinese
Cultural Revolution in the same way that
you do in the same way that most Western
English speakers possibly do I'm going
to here quote my former professor will
Guang I even have the date on which he
said this the idealist version of the
history of the Cultural Revolution the
idea that the Cultural Revolution was a
contest between competing ideals is
fundamentally incompatible with the
historical reality of it being a quote
dirty fierce power struggle so the idea
in the modern Western imagination is
that what happened during the culture
evolution is something like the witch
trial
that kadru points is described and the
people are now examining a bemoaning our
current canceled culture pattern of
people having rumors and innuendos and
these rumors get out of hand and overly
shrill allegations escalate so on and so
forth everyone competes to see who can
be the victim and everyone competes to
see who can make the most extreme
allegations the sort of thing that is
not this in no way comparable to the
reality of what the Cultural Revolution
was and there's a there's a kind of
horse before the carriage problem here
and how we think of the Cultural
Revolution the Cultural Revolution was
indeed not a contest of ideals it was
not to see who had the right philosophy
not at all and at the beginning of the
Cultural Revolution the most important
most powerful political leader in all of
China was a man named neo Xiao Qi I'm
not insulting my audience to say most
likely if you speak English as your
first language you have never heard of
Leo Shoji today he was he was erased
from the history of China to some extent
but of course he was much more uh turley
forgotten you know in the Western world
but Leo Shoji was not he wasn't a
political figure like Donald Trump who
had arisen to power suddenly who don't
know this is a guy with decades and
decades of building as significance in
Chinese communism in Chinese politics
and so at the beginning of the Cultural
Revolution he was by far the most
powerful most important political leader
in China and he didn't just lose his
power or lose his fame he also
ultimately lost his life in the Cultural
Revolution now sorry it's an imperfect
allegory to say a question of the cart
before the horse of something many
modern Western readers want to look at a
scenario like this as if well the main
point of what was going on was the sort
of philosophical or ideological debate
who had the best interpretation of the
water
Mergent the water margin is a literary
classic in China I'd compare it to
something like Shakespeare in that it's
a work of classic literature but some of
the people actually do read and they
actually do watch on TV and in movies
adapted in various ways I mean you know
it's not obscure like Shakespeare most
people grow up and they've seen a few
plays by Shakespeare whether in a movie
or reading it or what-have-you
so the idea that well you know people
were trying to have a really serious
conversation about the interpretation of
this literary masterpiece from Chinese
antiquity and you know that that debate
just got at hand that's completely
ridiculous the debates about how to
interpret a work of literature were 100%
cynical and motivated by I'm sorry to
use the same words as my as my professor
use the same words as wrong a dirty
fierce power struggle there never was
any shred of legitimate discourse about
that particular literature now if you
really want to get into the full scope
of the Cultural Revolution did that was
not the only ridiculous debate going on
about Chinese history and classical
literature I mean these debates so to
jump head to the very end you have the
the criticism of Confucius correct
it wasn't a sincere set of literary or
philosophical reflections on the value
of the work of Confucius the reflections
on the career of Qin Shihuang the the
first emperor of the Qin Dynasty let me
make sure of getting his name right here
Qin Shih Huang I think that's right yeah
I did get it right you know it wasn't
the case that you know just one day
people in the Communist Party wanted to
reevaluate to what extent Qin Shihuang
might have actually been right or they
wanted to reevaluate you know the
philosophical legacy of Confucius
one you know or they just decided to get
out this opera about the relationship of
a particular Emperor and a courtier and
so on every single one of these was
naked Li and obviously a power play to
eliminate particular people in power so
the the criticism of Confucius believe
it or not was actually criticism
directed towards Lin B ow
and Lin BL that became even more obvious
after his death so come back to my very
basic summer of events there
Leo Shao Qi was the most important
political heir in China the Cultural
Revolution eliminated him after he was
eliminated the most important political
leader in China was Lin be au the
Cultural Revolution eliminated him too
if the Cultural Revolution had kept
going on and on then doubtless other
political leaders would have stepped
into the the you know a position of
prominence and would have been
eliminated in their turn everyone in
China had already rehearsed this process
of denouncing defaming and tearing down
people in positions of authority above
you and then scrambling for the
opportunity to replace them this song
and dance but it was already old and
familiar by the time the Cultural
Revolution happened so all parties
launched into it with extreme cynicism
including Mao Zedong's own wife who's
considered the leader of the Gang of
Four the Gang of Four is what they were
called when they were denounced that was
Mao Zedong's wife and her closest
colleagues and associates who did form a
kind of ideological clique within the
Communist Party pushing for a certain
direction so the whole business of
denunciation and counter denunciation it
really fundamentally has nothing in
common with the culture we see now of
people cancelling each other over their
their moral failings the most important
definitive aspect of cancel culture that
contra points is complaining of is that
nobody has anything to win
it's malice in the strictest sense it's
people trying to harm someone and they
won't benefit from harming them it's not
the case that it's like you're trying to
get someone fired so that you personally
can be promoted and take over their job
that's different that maybe greed rather
than malice the phenomenon of cancel
culture has to be understood as malice
pure and simple maybe there's some Envy
maybe there's some sense of moral self
justification that you ratify herself as
a better person but this is in no way
comparable to the game that was being
played both are huge scale in China with
the occult Revolution and on and on a
sort of tiny scale now within this video
I'm not going to get into all the
evidence of this but suppose someone
were to say back they've heard my
perspective but they really think I'm
wrong they really think sincerely if you
examine the historical record the
participants in the Cultural Revolution
they argue sincerely we're trying to
create a new and better system of
education to give one example and they
were sincerely trying to create a new
and better system of local
self-government the equivalent of the
mayor's office but of course in a
communist party system the actual
nomenclature used for local government
is rather complex and turgid oh well if
someone did have that perspective
sincerely as soon as you start examining
the historical evidence what you find is
instead just like kind of ridiculous
debates about classical literature that
resulted in eliminating low xiaochi
eliminating Lin BL students did indeed
eliminate their professors they tore
down their professors with these
criticisms those kind allegations
denunciations show trials and so on and
so forth they didn't have a new and
better system of education to replace
the old one with right
you know some students manage to force
their way into university while
denouncing the system of examination so
while writing exams as bourgeois so I
don't have to do it again this is
clearly self-serving they didn't have a
new philosophy of education they didn't
have a new way to organize a classroom
or organize a university or even
organize exams they were tearing things
down and tearing people down and
destroying people's lives in a manner
that was very naked ly self-serving now
for me the greatest farce is actually
the replacement of local governments
where you'll have a town again the names
are very very similar but you'll have a
particular town or city that's being
governed by a communist party committee
so again the name sir but it'll be
something like okay the city of Shanghai
is being ruled by the communist party
committee to govern Shanghai
near this huge amount of violence people
get killed people get denounced people
get put on trials and what have you
people get denounced for being bourgeois
and what have you being secretly
capitalists rotors on these other things
and the announced that the Communist
Party government is abolished so now
instead of the the Communist Party
Council nail the city is ruled and
governed by the Revolutionary Committee
like it's not just that the names seem
interchangeable and it's not any better
in Chinese like okay so this is what you
guys call for when you look at how the
government actually functions what
actually happens what they do it's very
clear there was no philosophy there
wasn't a new idea of what government
should be for example they didn't have
elections they didn't say okay we're
getting rid of the old communist system
and now we're gonna have a democratic
system no they basically tore down one
communist despotism to replace it with
another identical communist despotism it
was identical in every way except that
the particular people in charge were
different so this happened in
universities this happened with the
City Hall City Council of government
this kind of thing this also happen with
things like hospitals
you know people denounced and tore down
the medical authorities who were in
charge of the hospital in this kind of
thing all over China institutions big
and small cities big and small there was
this sort of challenge to authority from
Red Guards and Revolutionary Committees
what-have-you and then the the real halt
to this kind of aimless self-serving
power grab that happened across China
with the early Cultural Revolution was
generally the militarization of the
situation so sooner or later the
military would step in and say ok too
many people are getting shot in the
streets so the military would step in
and begin directly administering things
themselves and that is one of the
reasons why this didn't result in mass
starvation in the same way that the
Great Leap Forward did so to be clear
I'm not saying nobody starved during the
Cultural Revolution but it wasn't the
kind of scale of tens of millions of
people starving to death that you had
during the Great Leap Forward and other
dislocations and again one of the
reasons was everyone had been through
this before everyone had rehearsed this
before everyone knew the rules of the
game they were playing including most of
all the military and the Chinese
People's Liberation Army they stepped in
and stabilized the situation and
ultimately they snuffed out the Red
Guards they snuffed out the Cultural
Revolution now so the way the question
was posed to me reflects the challenge
of forming some image of what the
Cultural Revolution was and why it
mattered in the Western imagination and
I sympathized the guy who posed question
to me had the idea that the Cultural
Revolution is somehow similar to what
counterpoints is complaining about with
with canceled culture and I guess that
is some that is one kind of moral you
can put to the story I can see why you
would want to think of the of the
history that way the Cultural Revolution
is a peculiar one because the the damage
done was much smaller than the damage
done by the Great Leap Forward and it's
not going to produce the kind of
best-selling hit books that the
devastation of the Great Leap for
produced the the nature of the violence
was more decentralized and participatory
then say the violence of Joseph Stalin
when he carried out his purges you know
that's that's a one centralized
authority hunting down and killing
people ultimately like a list drawn off
by Joseph Stalin and so on for who's
gonna be killed so it's unlikely to kind
of endure long in the Western
english-speaking imagination the way
that maybe the atrocities of Stalin's
history or even atrocities of other
periods within communist China's history
will endure and as I say nobody today in
the West remembers the names Leo Shao Qi
or Lin BL nobody is interested in what
kind of moral might be put to the story
from that perspective
conversely nobody is making positive
excuses for the Cultural Revolution
anymore I grew up in a household with
two adults two white Western adults who
supported the culture evolution of China
in my father's case he continued
supporting it to his grave he went to
his death never recanting and there was
a very intentionally contrived short
biographical film made about both of my
parents and they chose to make a
statement
it's mmm as ever called kind of 3/4 of
the way through the film it's not at the
beginning it's not right at the very end
but toward the end of that film they had
this very carefully made statement that
they always had supported the Chinese go
through a flusche in that they always
would and that what they saw what they
aspired for the future of Canada was a
cultural revolution for Canada similar
to what revolution was in China now
nobody would be more astonished to that
than Chinese Communists themselves
because even within China and even
within the Chinese Communist Party it is
universally agreed that
the Cultural Revolution was a flop was a
failure was terrible even if they
sympathize with its goals that it failed
to achieve those goals and of course in
reality most of them do not sympathize
with its goals and that's why China is a
capitalist country today
it's a capitalist country with no
democracy under a communist dictatorship
if less you could say that the the
tragedy of the Cultural Revolution was
that it destroyed the last idealism that
existed in China it proved to everyone
in China that these ideals were nothing
more than a mask put on an assassins
face and that the assassinations that
proceeded under that mask under that
cloak were exactly this kind of
skullduggery of killing Leo Shao Qi or
eliminating Lin B ow one after the other
so that somebody else could try to take
their seat could try to move up the
ladder in the very strange social
competition that defines a communist
oligarchy communist despotism so even
from a sincere pro-communist perspective
it's regarded as a disaster and then if
you have some kind of detached critical
perspective it's even more of a disaster
and if you wanted to take the
ideological discussion seriously five
minutes after the Cultural Revolution
ends what happens to their system of
education they go back to their
traditional systems education that I had
before and if anything they start
getting interested in imitating the
American system education is interesting
to know but they completely abandon any
supposedly socialist or communist ideals
or even egalitarian ideals of an
education all abandoned through a form
of local government the mayor's office
all completely abandoned everything goes
back to the way it was before being
ruled by a communist party committee or
Communist Party council whatever what
even happens with the philosophy of
Confucius so you have this huge
nationwide campaign the last at least
three years denouncing Confucius right
five minutes after it's over the
Communist Party of China begins again
kind of preaching Confucius as if it's a
kind of philosophical glue
that holds the Chinese people together
that what they share is this common
heritage of the closet views so it fails
on every level and in every way unless
you look at it as a dirty power struggle
as if if you see the success of the
Cultural Revolution being that people
got out there and managed to eliminate
their enemies
so what we're discussing here the excuse
for this set of reflections on what is
the Cultural Revolution
Kancil culture as it exists today in
many ways what we're discussing with
Kancil culture is more bleak and more
depressing because you know if one man
murders another because he needs to
steal a loaf of bread to feed himself
and his own family none of us approve of
murder and none of us approve of his
motivation but we can at least see the
rationality behind that crime that
there's a desperation there's a
self-interested motive that drove this
man to murder and what we see with
council culture is much more comparable
to someone who was sadistically and
psychopathically carrying out murder
when they have absolutely nothing to
gain themselves when they can't benefit
from it in any way and that's the side
of human nature that the anonymity of
the Internet has made more visible and
more vicious than ever before and I
don't think in comparison anyway to the
tremendous risks people took in China in
the Cultural Revolution non anonymously
to stand up on a stage in front of a
live audience and point the finger and
denounce someone for having betrayed the
revolution or adopted some borshu
ideology this was this was what was done
and then to have that debated you know
front in front of the roar of the crowd
and they'd have didn't only have some
kind of soldier sitting there as a as a
so-called judge and to risk one's own
life and to imperil someone else's life
people people did that with cold
calculation having grown up with one
cycle after another of this kind of
internecine low-level civil ruler
you know cyclically in China since the
Congress revolution people staked their
lives on it they staked their careers on
it they knew this was their chance to
get ahead and the only way to get ahead
the only form of free market competition
in that society in that system was by
tearing somebody else down I doubt that
in many cases it's even as sympathetic
as someone committing murder for the
sake of a loaf of bread but we can at
least sympathize with the desperation
involved when we look at the people who
are denouncing Concha points or the
people who've denounced me I have my own
long history of being cancelled through
our YouTube sadly it's we asked the
question who benefits and how I think
the answers we come to are even more
depressing than the blood-soaked history
of Chinese commies